Now that we learned how to add validators,
it's time to add more validators for our sign up,
for example I want to make sure that the password is also at least six characters long.
Now for that we add another middleware,
another check function call
and what you can also do is you can wrap these into an array. That is optional,
that is not required
but of course it keeps your checks kind of grouped together and maybe makes it clearer to read that
this block is all about validation.
Now instead of check, you can also use a different function
besides check which as I mentioned checks the body, the parameters, the query parameters and so on,
you can also add just body, just param, just query, just cookie or just header to check just a certain
set of features of the incoming request,
so I could use body instead of check to make sure
well you can look for a specific field but it has to be included in the request body.
So for this email, we would extract that e-mail from the cookies, the headers, anywhere,
doesn't matter because we'll be in the body
but it would look for it anywhere.
Now for the password I want to show you an alternative
and typically you would use the same approach for both of course and I could say well please check the
password value in the body of the request,
so if there happens to be a password value in the headers, I don't care about that.
So now I'm checking for password in the body
and now again you can add your validators. You could say isLength, that is a built-in validator which
you have to configure with some options in the form of a javascript object where you can set a min key
to let's say 5 and you could also set a max length if you wanted to.
So now we have the min length and we can also enter a different validator like isAlphanumeric to only
allow numbers and normal characters, so we could add that too
and if you don't add with message here by the way, then this means it will use the default invalid value
message.
Now maybe you want to use a default message for all validators but you don't want to repeat with message
after every validator
where you then enter like please enter a password with only numbers and text and at least 5 characters.
This could be the error message
but of course if we now repeat with message after every validator, this is a bit stupid
right, it's a bit redundant,
so for such a case where you have wanted the same error message for all your validators but it should
not be the default invalid value error message,
you can just grab that error message, remove with message here and simply add it as a second argument
to the body or to the check function and now this will be used as a default error message for all your validators.
So now this would be a check
we could add, checking for the password being at least 5 characters long and only alphanumeric,
in production you want to use more secure requirements, a longer password and you of course want to allow
special characters
but here just for demonstration purposes, this is fine.
And now if I save that I can enter a valid email address
but this password is too short, it's only one character, right.
So if I hit sign up, I get well
good job
I mean that's the forbidden email but if I now enter this, I get please enter a password with only numbers
and text and at least 5 characters.
If I do enter some new account email and then here a password that is long enough and that is only text
and characters, well I happen to use the email already
but other than that it succeeded.
If I enter something totally else, this simply worked and if I enter a valid email address, so this one doesn't
exist yet but I enter a password that is long enough but has a special character,
I fail because I only allow alphanumeric characters.
So this is another example for adding validation and how to add multiple checks for one and the same
request,
now in the next lecture, let's see how we can compare our passwords for equality.